we go I always know the conversations
gonna get off to a good start when I
meet a fellow Lenny Bruce fan yes yeah
and I I you know there's that line in
Fight Club the things you own end up
owning you yeah and I generally am NOT a
stuff guy but when I came in here I did
find myself going this is the right kind
of place to keep stuff yeah and I was
I've been wandering around looking at
things and that was my favorite thing
that I saw you have that a couple of
great Lenny Bruce posters one of which
I've never seen which one although that
one was his where he yeah it's really
wild he looks like an Indian guru or
something staring into the middle
distance that's that's amazing to
photograph him yeah I kind of bought as
much vintage Lenny Bruce stuff as I
could find and I this place has sort of
evolved into a semi gallery you know
it's it's I would like to have a house
with nothing in it and then have this
place just filled with shit no I I kind
of grew that also I think that it's fun
when you have people come through a
space so that you're actually like
sharing the things like it's sort of
like you're letting and someone come in
and wander mm-hmm and some of the best
museums in the worlds are people's
individual curation some of the best art
collections ever made are better than
any museum because they're put together
by someone and you're finding like the
threads and things yeah so I think when
you can when you can assemble like
things that have meant something to you
but you can put them in a space where
other people can bump into them it's
better than just like then letting them
just collect dust in your own home where
they you stop looking at them you know
you have a very unusual perspective for
someone who makes their living as an
actor what do you mean why do you think
so you're very thoughtful person very
thoughtful thank you - I do - yeah but
it's not common you got to find them you
got to curate those folks yeah I am
it's a funny it's a funny
it's a funny gig by like by definition
it's like if you think about all the
like the yin-yang and it the paradoxes
in it it's like on the one hand with
guys this actors there will be a lot of
you know there's a certain kind of uh
not not macho but there's like you know
men will look to play intense roles and
write these things but what you're doing
is like it's it's you're playing
dress-up like you know what you're
you're like and I always like I was like
the Dorothy Parker the famous New York
you know writer said scratch an actor
you'll find an actress I think it's the
great it's line it's not and it's not
how it sounds just be a little you know
like if that's not a knock on actresses
no no more if I mean but that's the real
truth of the whole thing is like we put
on makeup we put on clothes we play
dress up and we pretend to be other
people and it's like it really is like
you know when people are like you know
sometimes you my brother and sister will
laugh cuz I've done these certain things
that have a certain kind of iconic
intensity or whatever writing like you
and they look at me and they're like are
you kidding like you've seen the size of
his ankles he they're like my brother's
just like he's such a twerp like he's
that job he's my brother's like two
inches bigger than me and thirty pounds
bigger and way stronger you know my
little brother and he's and it's always
like he is that he's a theater nerd he's
like tough they're like don't you play
the Hulk
ya know but um or American history I do
but I do I do think there's there's
sometimes there's a it's really funny
the way there's a posture in it
sometimes there's like a pot there's
like a public-facing posture that some
people who are in this trade this weird
thing will adopt and it's like it's like
hey man I hate to tell you but like like
you don't have to live in to some you
don't have to live in to it I sometimes
feel like people are compensating for
the fact that what they do in fact is
play dress-up right do you do you think
it's also that they have to kind of
project this image to ensure that they
get more of these tough guy roles or
maybe maybe I don't know I don't know I
think um or or maybe it's like that's
who they
wanted to be maybe in a weird way
they're living into some some people I
think they they relish the opportunity
to change the story of who they are you
know what I mean they're they're they're
they're getting to through through
getting well-known they're getting this
chance to sort of like wipe the slate
you know of whatever it is they were
getting away from and they're getting to
you know the chance to sort of create a
create a persona that they're they're
happier with them than what then before
you know right look what they wish
they'd always work yeah and their
darkest times yeah or or you know yeah
there's there's I also think there's a
funny thing which is there's this
history of famous actors right so and it
I do think it sort of begins with Brando
because Brando had such an enormous
effect on the psychology of men in in
America he really really like and if you
look at what I would call like that
great generation of American actors the
the Dustin Hoffman Robert De Niro's
Robert Duvall Gene Hackman
Al Pacino Morgan Freeman Meryl Streep
like this you know the whole boat that's
all like the post Brando generation all
of those people literally all of them
wanted become actors because of Marlon
Brando and and he he so rewrote the idea
of what it was what it could be that you
got a whole it was like what Bob Dylan
did in in the culture it was like it
rewrote like it just rewrote the game
almost what Lenny did was calm yeah
absolutely
Lenny Bruce and good there and I and
there are these people who come and they
have they have like us kind of us a
permanent there a permanent before and
after yeah in in a certain kind of field
you know what I mean Hendrix with the
guitar and yeah yeah yes I would say so
I would say so in rock guitar yeah
although it is interesting when you go
back and look at rock in that era
there's that famous story of I think of
I don't remember if it's like Pete
Townsend making Eric Clapton come with
him to your Hendrix Clapton crying
you know about it yeah I heard that
story but you keep but you also can't
discount what Clapton in you know
there's those famous photos of the wall
Clapton is God like like there's it's
it's hard to like you can't really under
8 what Clapton did to guitar and guitar
you know in that era too right no he was
phenomenal but it was a different thing
it was a different thing Jimi Hendrix
was a protein he seemed like he broke
through to a new dimension yeah yeah
through the membrane of existence into
this a new sound and there's guys that
are like there's people that have a
distinct set like do you a Gary Clark
jr. fan no I can't
Gary Clark jr. zuv phenomenal blues
guitarist okay and he has a sound that's
almost instantaneously recognizable as
Gary Clark jr. you hear me you go oh my
god there it is like everyone who works
with them is just like they just walk
away sweating just going Jesus Christ
Wow it's phenomenal I feel that way
about Willie Nelson I think Willie
Nelson is legitimately in country music
like there's before and after Willie
Nelson like and and you can say that he
you know that Hank Williams jr. or
whatever that he but Willie Willie
Nelson to me is the hinge around which
it goes from being something that had
you know then it had a Nashville kind of
Grand Old Opry kind of polished to it
and he basically took it he reclaimed it
in as this like American roots mmm-hmm
thing and put jazz in it that's what's
so crazy is people but anyone who plays
music knows like Willie Nelson is
essentially a jazz guitar player like
and and he's you know redheaded stranger
is that to me that's a before and after
kind of a thing too like there's that
out that whole outlaw thing and I think
there's a whole lot of it's almost like
after that there's two camps they're
still going to be like the you know the
Steve Earle in his Copperhead Road thing
is more the project thing but then
there's like Steve Earle roots Steve
Earle you know what I mean it's like he
almost like straddled it but
but my point about Brando was just that
like he he he changed the he changed the
idea of the type of person that male
actors wanted to be they want suddenly
it was like they wanted to have like
patina or a reputable role they wanted
to be visceral not polished they wanted
to be muscular they wanted to be
masculine they wanted to be you know
intense like those were not the kind of
words that people when you think back on
like Jimmy Stewart Cary Grant like that
that is not what right that is not what
movie stars were aspiring to they were
aspiring to polish a kind of a Polish
before Brando and I wasn't right yes
there's a something there's something to
his performances where you go oh well
this is more like real life then a fit
like on the waterfront like I could have
been a contender thing yeah like when
he's doing that you're like well though
this is how someone would actually
behave if they felt like their life had
been a disaster and it could have been
avoided
well you just hit on something know that
I and drives me nuts because when people
sort of talk about Brando they're like
you know there's sort of the like the
Stanley Kowalski the the brutal
masculinity it's such a the thing about
Brando is he is beautiful he's an he's
kind of this enormous Roman looking guy
but it's eat where he kills where he
really kills his this kind of broken
sensitivity that he had and and I could
have been a contender is not a tough guy
speed it's the opposite it's a broken
tough guy it's a guy practically crying
saying like you were my viewer my
brother and you should have looked out
for me I needed you looking out for me
and my life is my life's gone down the
toilet because of that in that moment
you didn't look out for me it's you know
it's it's like tearful it's nuns and
even Steven the best moment of Stanley
Kowalski and streetcar is is really it's
like when he falls on his knees in front
of his wife and cries you know what I
mean it's like that's
what he he was way better in in a lot of
ways to me it's the fact that he was
actually kind of in touch with his
emotional life it's not that he was like
so macho at all it's that he he looked
that way but he was but he actually had
this like poetic sensitivity yes and it
was it resonated real like it felt real
yeah and if you watch actors before him
there was a certain the undeniable
theatric element to what they were doing
that was like oh this guy's acting yeah
whereas he was he seemed like a guy who
was really living the scene yeah yeah
and some of it it sometimes I think it
sounds so you say the instrument of a
person but he he has this crazy he's he
looks the way he looks but he's got this
marble-mouthed he's he's not articulate
he doesn't come off as like there's a
machinist - the way he speaks and kind
of a yeah it it doesn't have style
you know the guys before that it was you
felt their hurt you felt that they were
working on their style yeah and and he
seemed to be sort of like scratching his
ribs and and mumbling and and you know
in a t-shirt and he just was even kind
of present in the moment I think it was
all accentuated by the way he ended his
life like the end of his life he was
enormous
yeah gigantic fat guy and he just just
given in to all of his vices and it was
just this guy he's a beautiful man yeah
he just didn't seem to give a fuck about
that at all yeah I think he said
something to me one time about how um
how much he was enjoying his life when
he was like 23 and and he's like I you
know even when he was doing the play
streetcar that made him famous he was
telling me like he would get with his
pal Diego and go up to Harlem go to
clubs and hit on girls and all these
things and he and I said you weren't
aware of what was going on you know and
he goes well there was I was aware of a
certain amount of noise rise
and then one day I woke up and I was
sitting on a pile of candy that's what
Anna and I thought what a really wild
way to say it and I do think I'm not
even joking to me it's like what you
said it was like after that they were
just it was like there was no boundaries
he was like the gate he was getting
every everything was he he wasn't gonna
be able to resist
he wasn't disciplined he wasn't a super
disciplined person he was a very poetic
person and I don't think he was
disciplined and I think that a lot of
what happened you know he had placed
something like 17 children and and he
got you know he had appetites and he had
these things and I I think that um I I
do think that he you know strug
struggled to to deal with all the things
that came with being that famous you
know and being that famous when there
wasn't really a lot of examples of how
to do it right or wrong before you yeah
I'm sort of the Elvis thing right yeah
it's the Elvis thing the the flip is
like Dylan who I still find myself like
when you watch the new Scorsese have you
seen that thing rolling Rolling Thunder
it's really worth watching that um or
the original scripts ad doc about him
one nodirectionhome like here's this guy
he's like in his early 20s and they're
coming at him with all this like voice
you generation all this stuff and he's
like that's nothing I can relate to man
you know and he's and he's going like I
can't help wondering if Lenny Bruce
loved Dylan him I don't know that but I
would think that Lenny Bruce was tuned
into Dylan because Dylan's thing was
like don't ask me what it means man I
wrote it I you know I don't know what it
means what what do you think it means he
was just constantly going
buzz off man I'm not picking it apart
for you nah I'm not gonna pick it apart
for you I'm not gonna like buy into this
stuff you're putting at me and how did
he eat he was 20 20 21 years old like
who resists who resists people falling
all over them to call him great when
they're that age no
buddy right nobody has that kind of
flexibility sensibility to go everything
you're bringing at me is gonna be bad
for me and I it's it is like watch the
if you watch those interviews with him
when he's that age it's pretty
astonishing because to your point like
you're like a thoughtful act whatever I
look at him and I'm like nobody has that
discipline at that age it's amazing how
uniquely qualified he was for that
position at that point in time and that
very strange tumultuous time in history
as well and not only that right at the
moment that that like Joni Baez brings
him out on the stage at the Newport Folk
Festival and basically goes this is the
prince this is I anoint you he's the one
he's neo he's the he is the one and the
next year he doesn't even take one year
to go to go let me just let me just lean
into your love the next year he comes
with an electric guitar and plugs it in
at the Newport Folk Festival and people
start screaming in agony like going what
are you doing like you're Bob Dylan
you're the king of folk you can't plug
in a guitar and people are like running
to try to cut his chords with an ax in
this thing like that's how much of a
betrayal and he's like there's people
yelling traitor at him and he's going I
don't believe you you know I think
you're a liar like and he's turning
around under Robbie Robertson and go and
play it loud I mean the guy is so punk
rock wow he's so totally punk rock he he
was his punk rock as anybody ever I
think he probably had to be just to
resist what they were trying to box him
into yeah and but there's never been
anybody who was more like oh you like
what I'm doing I'm gone I'm over here
like enjoy you're gonna not like it
because you like what I just did now
where I'm going you're gonna be
discombobulated and upset and eventually
you're gonna catch up and then when you
catch up I'm gonna move on to something
else like it's it's really it really is
amazing is amazing cuz how many people
do you know in any of the things we all
do who get a taste of the thing and
don't like lean into it for a while
right like who don't kind of go well
this feels good you know maybe I'll just
hang out right here
and well it's always weird when you see
somebody lean into something and it's
not really them and they become what
people want of them you know in yeah you
like a great example in comedy was
Kinnison Kinnison when he made it
everyone he wanted to lay these gigantic
lines of coke for him apparently like oh
it's him it's him he's here right this
is laid some giant line of coke and he
would joke around about it like I had to
do it oh and you know he would do you
know a giant line yeah a fucking heart
attack right I can't not live in right I
think because then then yes they'll stop
trusting it right right but you become a
caricature you come this thing like Dice
Clay is another example like Dice Clay
who used to be that used to be one part
of his act his name's Andrew Andrew
silverstein so he would do his act and
then the dice man was a character that
he would do but people loved it so much
when it would do that character that the
character became his whole act and then
he became the character where you see
him in real life he's wearing like
weightlifting gloves and you know is
working around a Gold's Gym t-shirt he
became that guy he's hilarious still but
he's that guy now he's kind about the
backside of that when you say in what
way well now he's like acting and things
he does and not well yeah but he still
does the same kind of stand-up really if
you go see him it's still hilarious
irreverent
just complete like not of this era well
let me ask you a question because I am I
think it's interesting I think in that
vein like if you look at Howard Stern
who I've met only a couple times but I
had I found him to be like extremely
extremely thoughtful guy like me and I
don't mean that he just was very very
intelligent but he's also like um I
don't know the conversation we have
mutual friends and I and I and I really
enjoyed talking to him like I thought I
thought like oh there's nothing tricky
about him at all he's really like down
in his shoes he's interested he actually
asked question I mean it's some people
you meet and you're just like oh my god
you're they're talking in a mirror
that you're you were a mirror and
they're just looking at themselves while
they speak to you they're waiting for
you to get done talking to the time yeah
yeah but he but I think what I think is
really interesting is like so Howard
imagine imagine the pressure because I
grew up in the Baltimore area he was on
DC radio he was on DC 101 I remember I
remember that the shock of him literally
and imagine you know the pole to deliver
on what you've built which was obviously
you know a huge audience that wanted
this thing to me it's really interesting
and impressive that Howard's kind of and
I'm saying like I know and I don't know
him but watching it to me this idea that
he's kind of said hey look I I you know
I'm I'm gonna be honest about where I'm
at and in some measure I'm gonna say
there's things I've done I regret
there's ways I've treated certain people
in the interest of the show that I'm
kind of I'm kind of done with that I
don't really want to be that guy and in
some measure you know he's kind of
saying to his audience like you got to
deal with me where I am now yeah you
know what I mean
now I it's not like there's like a huge
risk in that because his audience is
gigantic right
what's also he's so successful and so
universally praised as being the most
important figure in the history of radio
mm-hmm like there's no one who does like
what I do podcasts there's no a gigantic
debt of gratitude to Howard Stern the
fact that you know he was getting fined
by the FCC me I mean they were hundreds
of thousands of dollars he kept getting
fired from radio stations we kept doing
of doing it the way he did it and it
changed the way people do talk radio
honestly the fact that we can even if
act that we've talked as long as we've
talked up to now is a function of him
proving that there was a tolerance for
long forms basically you know what I
mean I mean it's like people knock on
Netflix or whatever I'm like I'm like
anything there's an amazing thing going
on in the world right now which is
people are people are re reproductive
reconnecting with the fact that for all
of what goes on on Facebook and
Instagram and Twitter and all this
bullshit like the truth is people people
like and have the appetite for and their
brains enjoy longer form conversations
yes and longer form stories more than
then it was assumed they did you know
and I mean and like popular culture
feeds us a lot of like fast food and
xanax in like a speedball of of you
can't handle anything you don't want
anything more than then literally like a
little bit of junk food with a little
bit of xanax cause you just want to lie
on your couch and watch someone else
save the world that's I know that's all
you want but that in that is not true
and I think like you know you look at
things like like from peaky blinders to
Chernobyl to like the Ken Burns Civil
War series like we're going through this
thing where people are realizing like
now that's not actually true people
actually like you my pal Dax
you know Shepard who's got a great radio
show people like to listen to people
have actual conversations well they're
also listening in it's a new way of
ingesting entertainment like you're
getting it in your car you're getting it
in your ears when you're at the gym yeah
well you're on the subway
our bus or plane and it's you're getting
the stimulating long-form conversations
that maybe maybe people didn't even know
they wanted you know yeah I agree
I agree a great conversation with
someone so it's like you get to have
that conversation without participating
right right and and and Stern definitely
was like we're talking about before and
after like I and there was talk radio
but that but he kind of starts there I
think I think you you started to be like
I can listen this guy for a long time
yeah he broke through the membrane like
you're talking about Hendricks entering
into a new dimension of sounds he broke
through the membrane of talk radio and
what he's doing now is well now he's a
man in his 60s who's extremely wealthy
and he has some I'm sure some regrets as
you were talking about the things that
he's done in the past and said in the
past and it's also like this is who he
is now he's not going to pretend
right that he's just wants to bring
strippers in and have them ride the city
and every day and when people get upset
that he's changed well I hope you
changed to man yeah I hope everybody
changed oh that's what I mean I admire I
mean true it's true it's it's not quite
Dylan when he's 24 and being anointed
plugging in a guitar but I do think it's
when people sort of go hey I'm gonna I'm
gonna be where I am yes and and you got
to deal with it right
that's positive I think well it's
definitely better than leaning into it
and being what people want you to be
yeah and be struggling with that and
tortured by that I actually think most
of the most of people who I think that
mostly ends up badly yes yes yeah I
think whenever you don't go with whoever
you actually are and whenever you don't
acknowledge that whoever you actually
are has changed you know if you're
growing and learning and having these
epiphanies in these realizations about
yourself and where you fit into your own
life and how you've interacted with
people in your life you're not making
adjustments and you're only doing it
that way because you think that's what
people expect of you well your your
prisoner to your own first incarnation
yeah you know the first thing that
people saw and that was Kenna says oh
he's a kind of a prisoner to that
forever yeah it acknowledged it yeah
it's why it's why anybody who and it's
not even act to anybody anybody who can
who keeps doing interesting things
through phases is even more impressive
yeah that's all so is it hard as an
actor to if you you get an iconic role
and then you are sort of always
remembered for being that guy in that
thing like how much of a is is it a hard
transition to go from an iconic role to
going into your next role but people
still want to talk about the the the big
movie that you were in just a year or
two ago mmm it's never that hasn't been
a big thing for me I I think I take I
take a bit of time between things and
also I don't know when I you know like
the first thing I did what kind of
popped off pretty hot and then and then
everyone's like sending me like this you
know it's like it's psychotic
right psychotic interesting characters I
was like well I think I'll do a musical
with Woody Allen you know what I mean
and wear a plaid jacket and yeah do a
dance number and hence Winston's like
which is uh yeah or and and then what's
really weird is I did that first I did I
played this lawyer I played in a young
lawyer in the Larry Flynt film right
which and alpha that I got I get this
distinct vibe of like hey the next John
Grisham movie is kind of like the way
you were talking in court in that movie
you would kill and this John Grisham
thing as the young lawyer or whatever
and I'm and I remember I met Francis
Coppola was gonna direct the Rainmaker
this Grisham thing and I was up for it I
didn't get it Matt Damon got it um and I
didn't do some ballsy thing and like say
that's not for me I was like I was like
Francis Coppola I was like I want this
you know yeah I think but when I was
talking to him about it and thinking to
myself a little bit like this seems a
little square but it's like Francis
Coppola you know what I mean and it's
like and and he when I was talking to
him about it he was like well what you
know what what are you in truth what are
you working on what you're interested in
and I was telling him about my friend
David who had written this American
History X and that we were working on I
was kind of telling him what we were
trying to do with it and how we wanted
to make it is this kind of like gorillas
you know saying and and he was like you
should do that you should do that
immediately and I was like well I wanted
I I was like don't don't I I was like
don't cancel don't don't you know I
still want to do this with you he's like
no no I think you should do you like the
way you're talking about that and he
said if you do that now they'll never
they'll never know what to do with you
like they'll never they'll never be able
to put you in a box
kind of because that's just you know if
you pull that off
and I kind of was like I you know it
I did have an agent at the time it was
really old school really funny and he
was kind of like he didn't understand
now he was like he was like fine
something big let's find something big
big director big film big franchise
whatever and I I remember thinking like
no I think I'm going to do this and I'm
and we knocked that off and the funny
thing is you say well does that become a
trap
that wasn't a trap that was like a
liberation it's almost like doing that
part it was like a permanent hand
grenade on it was like net it was like
well we never know what to expect now
right so it's it becomes like liberation
on us at a certain point because like I
weigh 150 you know like I'm not big so
like once you do something like that
it's sort of like mmm when this guy's
this guy's this guy's kinky what the
hell are we gonna do with him you know
what I mean right and then it's just
sort of like you get to decide for
yourself in a way that's brilliant
yeah like Robert Downey jr. is amazing
as he is it's always gonna be Iron Man
like that sometimes you get one of those
roles you know like Thor Chris Hemsworth
he's fucking Thor dude you're Thor
forever you know you flirted with that
it depends on it and I think it depends
on how many of them you do but when you
did the Hulk were you worried about that
a little bit was there a no hesitation
because I was surprised when you did
that this is an interesting choice as is
evident I got more worried about it you
know I I I was I was very interested
because I loved it I I'm not like snobby
about I loved those like comics and I I
just arrived to him yeah I subscribed to
Hall guy all the darker that like Dark
Knight Frank Miller to hold all of it
was really you know it was it was some
it was it was something I really latched
on to and and I loved the Bill Bixby
Hulk yeah like he's
for me he's always for anyone in our age
like he's you know him walking away at
the end of the show yeah that's it um
and I I so yeah no I I I thought I tend
to get just the way I felt about
American History X I actually thought
American History X was sort of like a
fella or Macbeth I thought it was that's
what I said to David he'd written is
kind of edgy thing with the drug plot
and I was like I think he strip all that
away and he literally just make this
about rage destroying a person who's got
a lot in him it's like it's like a
Shakespearean tragedy but it's just it's
skinheads you know and that and that
really lit David up and that's where we
went with that right but Hulk Hulk is
like the it's uh prometheus right the
guy who steals fire from the gods for
people but he gets burned doing it and
his cursed right he's trying to take
like the power of nature back out to
people from the gods and he gets burned
and that's how I that's how I thought
about it I was like if we could do
something like that that leans into this
guy who thinks he's going for something
good it's gonna help humanity and he
cracks open like the backside of God and
and takes something out that is not
meant to be taken out and now he's
cursed like cursed you know that that's
what was amazing even as silly as the
show was on some levels Bill Bixby was
cursed like that's what and the end of
every show you were like oh my god
little cursed like alone in the world
and cursed right and there's something
pretty pretty heavy in that like pretty
cool in that and uh and so so it was it
wasn't um it you know I thought it was
like really worth of crack I fucking
loved it how did that seem come to play
where you were with Hicks and Gracie Oh
cuz I cuz I was
I studied Aikido when I was in college I
was studying Aikido and then when I was
studying Aikido
um hoist Gracie won the you know that
was a fine ship that was like the late
eighties right 1993 93 okay close yeah
so he writes oh but he I became aware oh
no that's it that you're right you're
right because I was in New York I was
studying Aikido in New York and and
hoist Gracie won that first UFC and like
I said I'm six feet tall but I literally
if I'm in shape I weigh like 155 right
and hoist when he won that was 170 like
six feet and under 180 right yep and I
remember it melted everybody's mind yeah
I mean it melted everybody's mind and I
so I became interested in them and and
what they were doing honestly do you do
you know that um you know in the story
in there and that family's whole crazy
story about being you know they were
Scotty the grandfather was Scottish
right mhm and he was like a consular he
was a customs he was a customs official
in Brazil and because he had a good
relationship with the Japanese console
and helped was was very generous in
helping Japanese people get their papers
to come through and in the Japanese
console I think the story is who knew
Aikido and jiu-jitsu offered to like
teach his sons yeah I was count my ADA
right yeah who came to he came to Brazil
and taught Carlos and Orion and and
Helio well what most of the
second-generation illios oldest son I
think I think Orion was the oldest son
he's the one who created the ultimate
fighting championship but Hickson the
reason why I was so significant that you
had him is that was the champion of the
family like great undeniably undisputed
everyone everyone throughout jiu-jitsu
this it's very very rare that one figure
is universally recognized as being the
superior product of jiu-jitsu and that
was Hickson yeah you knew all the way I
yeah if you followed that stuff at all
you kind of yes
heard that breakdown of it and yeah I
thought I thought a part of story I
think Hickson told me when we were in
Rio I think what he said to me was that
the reason Gracie jiu-jitsu became its
particular derivation and it's
particularly
do so well was because their father was
smaller than his brother that's Ilya
right and he and because and they were
all bigger and because he was smaller he
adapted yeah you know he adapted the
style to work for a smaller person
against a bigger person
yeah obviously and and then that kind of
like reached its its pinnacle with hoist
winning that yeah tournament which which
which this this gets down in the weeds
for people who aren't into this stuff
but the but it was I mean that wasn't
that you talk about these things the
cracking through a moment right that was
a cracking through moment it was like
wait a minute a guy his size just
literally won in all form all size
tournament like how is that possible you
know what I mean and it was like it was
like jaw hits floor and to me what was
really interesting was I was really
little all the way until literally the
end of high school I was very small I
grew a lot in my like when I was like 17
but I was really interested in Japan and
I was interested in martial arts and you
know James Clavell Shogun like not you
know and and I would take I took like a
karate class and it scared me I it was
people if they were bigger and faster it
was just scary if you were little it was
like I can't it doesn't matter if I can
do these combos or whatever in truth I'm
terrified of anybody bigger than me and
I don't feel that this is teaching me
anything that I would have the
confidence to to use to defend myself
right that's how I felt as a kid hmm and
when I when I bumped into Aikido I
completely changed my mind the guy there
was an incredible teacher in New Haven
when I was in college and he was small
he was like what you know maybe smaller
than wise Gracie or whatever
and the guy was unbelievably like potent
like just pink one of the most potent
teachers in anything I ever had I was
riveted by this guy and and and it kind
of started to make me believe that with
grab grappling and locking which there's
a lot of there's a lot of jujitsu in
Aikido and I was sort of like I was
fascinated I started feeling like this
this this makes me feel like I it's not
like kicking someone's ass at all it's
just more like I feel more empowered I
feel I feel helped able to handle an
authentic situation yes which is it
mentally empowering more than like I
want to get into scraps right and it was
just kind of amazing it's like having a
secret in a way like whoa there's a
secret to a much smaller person being
able to lever a much bigger person and
then that thing happened with the
Gracie's and it was sort of like the
whole thing cracked open it was like
this it was like proof yes
in a way you know and and if you were
interested in that stuff it was an
incredible moment but because my
interest in that for years when we went
to Rio Rio and I had been working on the
script of that movie and stuff and I was
like I was really interested in this
idea that banner is is desperate for
control right that he desperately
desperately needs to control his
heartrate his breathing that it's a
massive liability in his mind if he
can't control his emotions and his
adrenaline and I was like well who in
the world and I had seen the videos of
Hicks I'd never met him or any of them
but I'd seen the videos of him doing the
amazing stuff with his stomach yeah the
Younger yeah and the breathing fire and
I was like and I just was like we have
to end and everyone was like who's that
I was like I was like Philistines
you're all Philistine so I was like and
I was like find me Hicks and Gracie and
ask him if he'll do a scene with me in
the movie being the guy who's training
bannered to like calm himself and he was
there and he did he did it with us and
it was like I was like yeah there it is
right here
yeah yeah when I saw this in the movie I
was like oh fuck yeah
like what a smart move yeah and I was
like I was I was like yeah see I got I
forgot this holy crap I haven't looked
at this in a long time he's like how
charismatic he is he's ooze I mean the
guy the guy could have been like Charles
Bronson a hundred percent Camus v-star
did you ever see choke the documentary
yeah one of the greatest documentaries
in history and like pumpkin solutely
yeah yeah absolutely for martial arts
and it details Hickson's journeys to
Japan to fight in Japan Valley to toe
which was around 94 which is right after
his brother had won the Ultimate
Fighting Championship and the story was
that if his brother lost Hickson was
going in like the idea was low we'll
bring in hoist because it's more
impressive he's a smaller man he's not
physically imposing whereas Hickson in
that video there he was older when he
was young he was you know very fit and
it was big into yoga and physical
fitness and he had the strongest body of
all the graces like he looked very
formidable right whereas hoist looked
unassuming and it was a more of an
advertisement of jujitsu hoist could
beat everybody and hoist wound up doing
but if at any reason right they needed
to bring in the big gun it's gonna be
hexa and hoist always talked about it
like Hickson could tap him left and
right and everybody was like that
doesn't even make sense
hoist is the Ultimate Fighting champion
yeah he's the guy but his brother would
just run right through him you run right
he would run right through everybody he
would they would have a line of black
belts and they would all wait for their
turn to get tapped and they would roll
with Hickson and he would just dismantle
everybody people that thought they
understood jiu-jitsu it's so they're
there's so many levels and layers to
jiu-jitsu that even though it looks like
what is the difference this guy's doing
an armbar you're doing an armbar there's
specifics in the intricate aspects of
the positions that Hickson understood
that they just didn't understand and
then on top of that he had much greater
control of his body because of his yoga
background I mean he became obsessed
with yoga and breathing yes and
breathing and and something called
gymnastic naturale which was like a
style of movement that was like sort of
like vinyasa yoga with all these like
flowing postures but also with a bunch
of like almost like animal move
- it - and it was a very physically
demanding thing and he became
outstanding at that as well but it's
people don't from the outside when you
start talking about things like
jiu-jitsu and Ultimate Fighting you
think of like is brutal violent but it's
an intellectual pursuit and it's a
spiritual pursuit because to be the
person that can overcome all of the
obstacles you have to have incredible
control of your emotions and your
thought processes and your understanding
of who you are and that I think is one
of the things that separated Hickson
from everybody I do - I also think that
um I think that people don't realize
that a lot of a lot of stress a lot of
aggression it's like aggression actually
it's like paired with stress usually you
know what I mean you it's hard to be
aggressive super aggressive without a
little bit of like adrenaline pumping
and stress and all these things and the
truth is like there's so much of the
training if you're actually training
stuff what you're training yourself to
do is be calm that and that's like
totally counterintuitive because people
think no you got to go in there like
Rocky and you know want to win and it's
like well in a fighting config in a
competition sure on some level but
really really really great people kind
of in any sport but it's even more
counter intuitive in fighting is is they
Eve's you need to cultivate calm yes and
the ability to to be clinical and think
calmly control your breathing because
like you get exhausted if you can't
control your breathing and and the truth
is is that those are life skills that
are actually very this they cultivate a
very calm it helps you cultivate calm in
life and the thing I always really liked
about Aikido is that there aren't
attacks in it it it it was developed by
a guy morihei ueshiba who was a he was
an all-round Bou Jitsu master he was
like in jiu-jitsu kendo karate all these
things and he he developed Aikido
because he had joined the global
pacifist movement he he he was like a
the most respected like cross form
Japanese martial artists and he became
he joined the same movement for pacifism
that Gandhi was a part of in like the
20s and he he believed that martial arts
could contribute to passivism if they
refined and he and Aikido was a
refinement of kendo jujitsu judo and and
he basically said I'm gonna develop a
non aggressive martial art that has all
it has no attacks and there's an hook'
in it like for the thing but it's only a
defensive and it's like that that phrase
we all hear redirection of energy the
conversion of negative energy into into
neutral that's like the that's his that
is really his contribution he was like
you can take you can take the most
aggressive energy and you can neutralize
and you can neutralize it very
peacefully or you can neutralize it with
a little more teeth in it depending on
how aggressive the person's being but I
loved that I thought that was amazing
because it was like I wasn't like
looking to be in fight but I loved the
idea that you had couldn't you could
have control and you could like
neutralize and and I I think I think
there's something kind of amazing in
that I think it's like actually aligns
with like yoga with with meditation with
all things surfing I mean I I that's
what surfing is it's like there's all
this energy coming at you like and it's
gonna like put you into the rocks or
rock you or flip you over and you but
you you don't you don't let that happen
you kind of you look at it you look at a
million waves you figure out how to move
yourself you get in there and you get
the exact opposite of getting torched
you get like the best thing ever right
and I think things like that that are
where you have to those are like Zen you
know what I mean and I think she like
jiu-jitsu what really what you're saying
is really ultimately like why he was
great as he had he had he had like the
deepest end of anybody and the whole
thing because he was the calmest and he
had like the Micro Micro Micro Micro
understanding of forms but really like
it
something deeper it's like he it's like
neo in the matrix he's like seeing it
with more granularity everything he had
the full package of it did you ever see
any of Steven Seagal when he was very
young
mm-hmm when he was teaching in Japan I
was totally fast I mean it's like it's
really it's weird like me right like
like like serious actor thoughtful actor
I'm like what did you you know but I
like above the law
yeah because I was into all that stuff
when above the law came out and there
was the scene in above the line he's in
an Aikido you know ghee with the black
thing and he's doing this things and I
was ripped I was like oh my god like
like this is so cool like when have you
ever seen this in a movie yeah and and
he was a you know big guy and he made it
violent yeah it's very unusual sort of
contribution to martial arts because men
martial arts movies yeah he made it
realistic yeah it was one of the most
realistic martial arts movies ever yeah
it was and you know when you look back
on it there's things about it don't
dates yeah of course but it was
undeniably like really what you just
thing the thing of the guy coming it's
that simple thing that thrust and the
break and the thing it's yes he also in
the film when the guys come at him in I
see this is shows you how it burns your
brain there's a scene where there's in a
like a bodega and the guy I think he
smashes a bottle and he comes at him and
he does like a move and mockito it's
called like code Takashi it's like he
it's like the wrist you know it's like
the wrist break flip over and it was
just like oh my god like he's doing he's
doing like you know nuanced Aikido moves
in a big action movie it was kind of
cool well he was one of the first I
think the first Westerner to run a dojo
in Japan I mean he was a legitimate
Aikido master yeah and I think but
what's interesting is when I studied
over there he was it was slightly
controversial because I don't think he
was he had broken away from like like
ueshiba mhmmm Aikido he was doing he was
doing like the way that Gracie jiu-jitsu
is not pure Japanese knew he was doing
something with this it was somehow it
was associated
with Osaka than Tokyo where the hombu
dojo and Aikido is and I there was some
country yeah there was there was just
you know like the way things are with
schools of thought mmm
but um but yeah he had a certain legit
kind of thing and its really wild cuz
people like Mike Ovitz who was like the
power agent of all of Hollywood in the
80s you know Mike got a black belt
training with Seagal like he was really
serious
Aikido East I didn't know that yeah that
makes sense yeah it does he's a
cautionary tale to them I mean not even
Novus I mean Seagal you know yeah when I
come I guess I honestly my my I don't
know anything about him past a certain
point like I I I don't know what went on
there yeah but I leave it at that
yeah I don't tell me about your new
movie let's leave it at that
it's called motherless Brooklyn it's it
was it you know it was kind of a big
swing cuz I wrote it and I produced it
and this is the first time you've done
that directed it I know I produced and
directed the first movie I directed is
keeping the faith with it's um it's me
and Ben Stiller play a rabbi and a
priest who were best friends and they
and they both fall for the same girl do
you ever see the Helen no I didn't it's
funny yeah you'd like it um Ben is
hilarious in it that was obviously
lighter that was a lighter kind of movie
but it wasn't I'm I've lived in New York
there almost 30 years and I like making
movies in New York a lot that was pretty
light one this one is more um this takes
place in the 50s in New York and it's
kind of it's got a Chinatown LA
Confidential kind of a noir bent to it
it's a it's a mystery a murder mystery
of kind of that leads into some of the
stuff that happened in New York in the
50s that is hard to believe because New
York was New York was run by
and it was run by basically a Darth
vader-like figure who was never elected
to public office and excuse me people
thought he was the parks commissioner of
New York but he was four from 1930 to
1968 he had uncontested authoritarian
power over New York City in New York
State and he made every significant
decision about the way that the modern
infrastructure of New York was built
where the roads went where the bridges
were built what was torn down where the
projects were built he and he was very
racist and he baked like really
discriminatory things that almost sound
like conspiracy theory they're so wild
and intense into the decisions he made
he was responsible for the Dodgers
leaving Brooklyn and going to LA and
nobody knows this like they you think of
New York is the great that's like the
greater Galit Aryan melting pot city
where democracy works except that it was
run by a total autocrat for 38 years
yeah for four he's largely it's broadly
accepted that no mayor or governor of
New York could do a single thing without
his say-so from basically about 1930 to
about 1968 how is that even possible
and how come no one knows about this how
did you find out what people do there's
there's there's heute like in one of the
big Burns Brothers documentaries about
New York there's a whole literally
almost a whole episode on him there's a
great book about him that won the
Pulitzer Prize and there's his name was
Robert Moses and he you know there's
Robert Moses State Beach in New York and
but literally people think he was the
Parks Commissioner but he was and he was
like Anakin Skywalker I he was like a
Jedi Knight he was a big liberal
progressive believer in progressive
change and government reform and in his
early years he got crushed by Tammany
Hall and and the power brokers and he
went he went dark went completely yeah
that's not the most imposing picture of
him that you've got that's an advice one
of the ones of him find one of the ones
been standing in front of his models
there's famous ones of him that looks
like a man yeah well actually the to the
left of that and keep going to the left
of that
because there's a scene in our movie
where alec baldwin is literally like
that yeah that alec baldwin ascend plays
a character who's based on and him
inspired by him i should say it's not at
all in my film it's not the true story
but yeah there you go
and but i think this idea i was really
interested in this idea you know what's
great about chinatown as a film is um
it's mostly sexy them you you don't know
what the hell is going on in that movie
like until the until 20 minutes before
the end you have absolutely no idea
really what's going on in that movie but
it's just sexy it's like the music is
amazing
the photography's incredible the actors
are like adult and real and he's he's
nicholson right yeah the hook
is like Nicholson is so cool you really
will kind of follow him you'll watch the
way he deals with anything and just
you're just laughing and enjoying it
right but underneath it all when you're
done you go did that is that true - la
is la basically built on stolen water is
that like the like LA's original sin is
that people made fortunes the valley was
just farms and they stole the water from
up north and you know rigged the game
and made these gigantic fortunes by
irrigating San Fernando Valley and you
you you come away with like you come
away with an awareness that like the
California story's not exactly what it's
cracked up to be
right it's there's some big crimes
underneath it and and the people who
that in that movie it's like yeah that
people ripped everybody off they faked
droughts they they created fortunate
cells and the type of people who did
that also rape their daughters literally
that's like what that movie is about
it's and it and it's pretty bleak it's
like you can't make a difference you
cannot change anything like any if you
try the person you're trying to help is
going to end up with a bullet through
her eye dead on the steering wheel like
it's it's a really dark movie and people
forget that because you just go out
Faye Dunaway it's like nice oh that's a
really really bleak movie but I love I
love the idea that that you can do
things where like the the pleasure of it
is like the pleasure of movies it's
grown-up it's kind of what we've been
talking about it's like like if you said
to most people if you show Chinatown to
most critics today they'd go long boring
whatever it's like you've wanted a fuck
off like fuck off like what what is it
that you why are you why are you
assuming people can't handle grown-up
you know what I mean then and I think
that that I really dig those things
where you go through the movie starts
you look at it and you go this looks
really good this looks really grown-up
this is big
the actors are like like adult and
authoritative the dialogue is great the
music is great it's hypnotic
and your brain just goes I don't know
what's going on I don't care I'm bought
in and then and if there's a character
in it that you can hook into you float
you float through those movies you just
kind of go where's this going what's
going on oh man that guy she's great
he's great Wow
like this is just all juicy and great
and by the end you get somewhere and you
gotta go
I'll be damned that actually was about
big things did those things really
happened you know that's I really dig
those movies I dig Chinatown LA
Confidential I think the Godfather works
that way the Godfather's about
immigrants you know it's about
immigrants normalizing in America you
know it's like that's a long movie yeah
you just settle in for that right your
brain settles in and just goes this just
couldn't be better
I couldn't be happier to be watching
this scene after scene after scene Mike
and I wanted to make I wanted to try I
wanted to try to make one of those you
know myself like I wanted to try to to
make one of those because I don't it's
it's cliche to say like they don't make
those anymore
but it but I think you know they were
always hard it's not like they were easy
once and now they're hard they're all
they're always hard but I
I would look at people like Warren
Beatty he made Reds you know which is
one of the great movies from that era
even like Spike Lee doing do the right
thing
I don't know if you remember when that
movie hit sure it was massive it was a
huge deal to me I was like 18 or 19 yeah
I saw that movie and I was like he just
rewrote the game like this kid
who the hell is that he wrote it he
directed it he acted in it he got Public
Enemy to do the music yeah it's about
his neighborhood in New York but it's
about like race in America it's like oh
my god that guy just took like a huge
swing and connected on like every level
and it didn't even give you some BS kind
of like don't worry it's gonna be okay
in the end right it was like Martin
Luther King says violence is not the way
Malcolm X says sometimes it's the only
rational response what do you think you
know what I mean it was so ballsy it was
so ballsy that movie and I think like
after a while it's sort of like I just
started feeling like well you know I
don't really need to gig I might as well
I've worked with a lot of great people
I've worked with some pretty great
directors including Spike and I was kind
of like I've been in New York a long
time and I just thought it was really
weird no one knew that story and I was
like I'm gonna try to make one about
this you know as someone who doesn't
make movies I always wonder like what
happened between like say Steve
McQueen's LeMans mm-hmm did you ever see
that before you remember how there's no
dialogue at all for like the longest
time and I remember I watched it
recently within the last couple years
and one of the thoughts was I don't even
know if they could do this today if
anybody would allow them to make a movie
where no one talks for a long time
they're just sort of setting the stage
of what it means to be a race car driver
and what's the atmosphere of the races
it's just the the idea that you were
saying earlier about having this short
attention span theater this this these
movies that are designed for what they
believe is a populace of people that
don't have the interest in something
that's more unique or something that
requires thought something a drag
and that was much more common in the
past like why was it more common in in
that era of McQueen and all those other
movies that they did like that and what
has happened and like these rare
examples like when a guy does break
through with something like do the right
thing or a few other examples why
doesn't that stimulate the the appetite
for more well is it that hard to do on
one level on one level yeah it's it's
it's it's easy to recognize when they're
great but it's still not eat it's still
not easy to make them great it's still
we're talking about people who are some
of our greatest artists or directors you
know what I mean they and lots of people
they try on some level they try on some
level but they just not everybody as
Spike Lee right you know what I mean
not everybody is Francis Coppola or you
know I'd say it's like it it people
people sometimes people make things and
they actually are slow you know what I
mean you're like yeah it's like it's
like in spinal tap when they're like
it's a it's a fine line between stupid
and clap you know no it's a fine line
between clever and stupid you know what
I mean it's like it's if I think people
try but I do I think I think that there
are some people who really do think jaws
had a big effect on movies because it
was it was like the first true
blockbuster right and I don't know you
know what actually go I'm I'm I'm wrong
I I think that what happens more often
than not is adult people get the jobs at
the big companies that make the
decisions about what to make right and
at a certain point they sort of age out
they start to age out and they don't
actually have any idea what what the
vibe is they don't know what to make for
the coming wave
of younger people and so these little
windows open up now and then we're in
that era they needed there was they
needed new people they needed like you
know George Lucas making American
Graffiti nobody thought that movies
could be a hit nobody you know they they
open up they say we don't know what to
do do something different and a couple
of new voices like come in and they make
things that are really different you
know but the idea that that was only
then like there's a whole book right now
about 1999 you know there's this book
that came out about how 1999 was one of
those years where because the studio's
had kind of lost their sense of exactly
what to do and Miramax was making a shit
ton of money on an auteur driven movies
made for low-cost and the studio's all
went and set up little mini Miramax's
right and the result was that like in
that year you had like meg you know Paul
Thomas Anderson Wes Anderson Alexander
Payne Spike Jones David O'Russell
Fincher the Wachowskis like an
unbelievable array of directors made
really really memorable films in that
year and I think it was because it was
like another one of those moments like
we don't know what to we don't know what
to do we're just gonna have to like
close our eyes and go you kids you kids
figure it out you know what I mean the
thing about films it seems to me it's
such a collaborative effort and when you
have so many moving pieces and so many
people involved that have an say in the
decision-making process
it's got to be insanely difficult to get
something out that's pure yes that's
true that's true
I Francis Coppola said that the best
thing about making films is that they're
collaborative and the worst thing about
making films is that they're
collaborative he also said it's the last
it's the last moral totalitarian
job in the world like being a director
or something I can't remember but it's
true you you it's it's a very um because
like I made this movie I had like I had
a fraction of like the budget of the
Irishman right I'm just which I'm naming
only because it was a period piece
you know mines in the 50s that one's
crazy things and and I had like like
less days to do it then I had on my
first movie that I directed do it like
46 which for perspective Fight Club was
a hundred and thirty day shoot and and
46 days is less than most movies I've
made and this was a big 1950s like
period film with a huge like French
Connection style chart car chase in the
opening running through Harlem across
the bridge down into Queens you know we
weren't we weren't like making a little
kitchen sink drama and to figure that
out that is like you can be like on the
I got the vision we're gonna do this but
there's a kind of madness and saying
this is what I want to do I want to
recreate the old Penn Station that
doesn't exist anymore right which we
have in the film like my character goes
into the old Penn Station that was torn
down in 1963 or whatever and and you
only pull that off with the most
kick-ass Justice League of collaborators
imaginable like they make you look like
you're a visionary or know what you're
doing because you get these people with
crazy talents of their own and I don't
mean just cast although I had that too
in this I mean like some of the very
very very best people bring their their
talent to like making that work and and
so that's like when you say like your
job is lit is more to say I have really
talented people I've got to get their
frequency wave in line with mine if I
can get their frequency wave in lines of
mine then it can be my my idea of my
vision my weird ideas can be in there
but it's with its executed with the help
of people who believe in it and buy into
it you know that's that
the key is like your your your
marshaling people to get to it in sync
with you and and you know I have a sick
cat it's like Bruce Willis Alec Baldwin
Willem Dafoe Bobby Cannavale a Michael K
Williams it was like Omar on the wire
why this great actress Google in bath or
raw and and Leslie Mann and you know on
and on and on and I got and all these
people did this as a favor to me because
I didn't have any money to do it so
starting with Bruce Bruce was like you
know he said to me a long time ago I'll
if you have something good I want to be
in it I really want to do the kind of
stuff you're doing and I really mean it
I'll do anything you want to do and help
you get it done I was like he's not
gonna remember that you know he's gonna
be like sure sure but I'm doing diehard
like for the rest here and he didn't he
was like where do you need me I told you
I'm in let's get it done and basically
Bruce Alec Willem people like that
I practically call them cofn dancers on
my film cuz they only got it done
because they deferred everything you
know and I think that's really cool
that's amazing yeah when you write
something like this car chase scene
through Harlem I mean I would imagine
the logistics of pulling something like
that off it's got to be insane yeah it's
nuts
how does when you wrote it and you
brought it to the people that are the
the stunt people the people that
coordinate these chase scenes were they
like oh fuck
people get people yes you know doing the
things is not hard getting permission do
them in Manhattan is is tricky and there
are people who look at you like you're
dreaming man like you're not and and and
you what you do is you go out and scout
and you start you say look this is the
we can do this here and this here and
this isn't hard this is not we only need
this one block cleared as things then
you like find that place where you're
like I want him to do a huge screeching
turn onto Frederick Douglas Boulevard
because it has a nine block stretch
where there's very few buildings that
don't look
they're in the 50s right leading up to a
bridge that you wanted to go over the
bridge and then you get with like the
guys at the NYPD and you beg like you
just bag you go look we're gonna be like
the Dirty Dozen we're gonna have the
we're gonna everything is going to be so
well planned and ready to go we'll be
able to will say just shut it down and
then 20 minutes we'll be done you know
what I mean like you you start at any
minute
well no just for us it's a shot we know
it's like we just need to do this once
or twice to get this this turn of the
car around the corner and headed up the
Avenue with 80 cars from the 50s and you
using legitimate 1950s cars as well yeah
so those things handle like they're
horrible they're boats with wheels so
any car that's actually got to be doing
anything like going fast or making a big
turn you have to have four of the same
model that you've painted identically
because they're going to break like they
will break you'll wash one hard it will
break and then you have to like bring
the other one in you know what I mean so
you you and you you basically can't make
them go fast you know they don't have
pickup right so you're you're figuring
out like what are the moves we can make
that make it feel like this thing is
really bombing and and and how do we
cross cut around the fact that it takes
three blocks for it to accelerate I mean
like literally to go from you know ten
miles an hour to 40 you need like
literally like three or four blocks so
you have to like get it up to speed for
the section that you want it going fast
and it's it's it's I'm not doing another
period movie I'm doing the next movie
I'm doing is gonna have Tesla p100 these
that go like 0 to 60 and 2.4 now when
you chord when you write this out like
how much time is involved in preparation
of writing this and then doing all the
scouting and then trying to implement
this whole it took me a couple years to
write it because I haven't even it said
in I think you have to know yourself
I'm not Bogart I'm not like Jack
Nicholson the magic they bring is the
magic they bring and the character I put
at the middle of this is the
the detective that I play has Tourette
syndrome and obsessive-compulsive
disorder so he he can't like when he you
know when he meets a blonde at the bar
he's like the opposite of Bogart he he
tries to light her match and can't stop
blowing it out because it doesn't sound
right to him
so it's he's kind of a train wreck like
he's the opposite of a cool detective
and in fact Bruce Willis plays the cool
detective who he works for
so like Bruce Willis is Nicholson but
when something bad happens to him and my
guy has to like step out of the
assistant role you know he's like his
operative because he has a great memory
he has like a photographic memory and
some really weird ability to like
because his brain is is chaotic and
crazy he has certain little gifts that
Bruce Willis like relies on him for and
believes in him but when but when he has
to sort of figure out what happened to
his boss and solve this mystery like he
kind of has to come out on his own out
of his comfort zone and kind of become a
detective and and it and it's like you
know he's ticking and twitching and
shouting and doing things that make it
very difficult for him to move in the
world so that's kind of like I had that
part of it and I was grafting it into
this story of of of what happened in New
York in the 50s and it took me a long
time to write it and get it right but
once I had it right you know we probably
prepped the movie for like nine months
we we were we were actively like
scouting New York you know and imagining
like where can we do this and how can we
do this but I live in New York so I
loved it I like get on my motorcycle and
go up to Harlem and Washington Heights
and and literally like cruise around
just cruise around I know the area
really well anyway but you sometimes you
just have to like just and that's where
a bike in New York is really great like
because you can just sort of float
around float around float around
mentally map
like where you can do a thing and and it
was it was pretty fun such a bold move
riding a bike in New York City
no it's not la is way way way challenges
because New York no one's going that
fast right mmm
you can be I can't explain it in New
York there's a rationality to the way
people are moving but I'll tell you the
number one main thing new New York
require New York driving it's so stop
and start and it's the things nobody has
time to be on their phone and in LA if
I'm on a bike I would say I regularly
look to my right and I look to my left
and both people on either side of me are
texting
do you ever see I mean yes all the time
all the time when I'm in my truck
especially cuz I can look down yeah and
you realize you realize that in this
town 60% of people at any given moment
are texting on their phone and it's just
appalling and it's so dangerous yeah and
I'll be on if I'm on a motorcycle in LA
I'll look at people they're texting for
so long and finally I'll have to like
hit the horn or something and look at
them I've gotten past like you know
anger and literally just looked at
people flip my thing up and gone like
please like please get off your phone
like you're going to kill somebody and
kill yourself but but we can't we can't
break the addiction people cannot break
the addiction and and I it's not a more
you you realize he's in the character
flaw it's not it's not like what an
asshole it's everybody it's your mom
it's your sister it's your friend
everybody is doing it because we're
addicted like a device addicted but but
when you're on a bike and you realize
like I am floating in a sea of people
who are going to mess up someone is
going to mess up and they've got airbags
and you know new modern stuff and I
you're on it but like you know anything
yeah I don't I think I think
I think this is way more dangerous
riding than the New York that makes
sense when you talk about things like
the 405 or the one-on-one people are
flying by and passing and changing lanes
in the texting - yeah and also the big
avenues people get up you know Wilshire
Boulevard whatever they're looking at
thing and they blow that red light all
the time and half the times you hear
about or see bad accidents here
especially if they involve motorcycles
something it's like it would it's not
like the person screwed the the person
on the bike didn't screw up someone went
through a red light right and just
broadsided them or they t-bone them you
think you know it's it's just it's like
do you really want to make that the huge
bet on yourself where what you're riding
on is other people's concentration you
know it's were you riding when you were
living out here I've never I've always
lived in New York so when you've been
here it's only from a few months at a
time
yeah no words I've I have I've spent
winters out here I I like to surf and
I'm and I'm by the way I'm like not I'm
not like a pro experienced like veteran
motorcycle rider at all I just enjoy it
and like out here it's fun you know like
go up the Angeles Crest Road or
something like that you know I love
driving up there yeah it's really it's
really it's cool there's California la
la it's hard no one likes being on a
motorcycle in LA sucks it's like just
hot and everybody's in your face but but
the you know California is incredible
there's there's there's so much there's
so many amazing places to go in
California and I'm and I kind of got
hooked on it out here and so then when
you were in New York you just said fuck
it this is actually a good place to ride
a bike no it's not it's not even that I
read bicycles - in New York I like it
but it's more just that it the thing
that pulls you in I mean I have lots I
you know I like to surf I fly planes I
like there's a lot of stuff that I think
is much much much that's thrilling it's
much safer than riding motorcycles it's
not like my jam mm-hmm but once you have
that skill set once you can do it
if you have a bike there are those times
in LA and in New York to where you take
a look at like the gridlock and you're
just like I'm gonna be if I'm gonna be
in this for at forever mm-hmm and on a
bike you can lane split and just get you
know you can get where you need to go
and in New York too you can you can zip
around in ways that is efficient so how
long did this that mean how long did you
sit on this story how long did you know
about this and how what was the process
of having this sort of build in your
minds the point where you wanted to
write it direct and produce it cast it
honestly I read the book exactly 20
years ago I read it in the fall of 99
when I was when Fight Club came out
that's right around the time as I read
this novel motherless Brooklyn but but
the novels about the Torretta tech t'v
who's trying to solve the murder of his
his only friend basically but it takes
place in the 90s it's not about any of
that stuff
about New York in the 50s or anything
it's just and the character is just
amazing though like amazing so when I
read it the hook was the character I was
like I was like what a great character
it's so it's such a wild he's like I
just this hot mess of of he's smart but
he's totally messed up he's he's funny
but also really it's pretty painful and
lonely and it was just everything and I
was like that's I I could get so into
trying to figure that out for reasons
that are a little hard to explain the
tone of the book feels like a 50s
detective novel but it's set in the
modern world and I was afraid in a movie
that would feel a little bit like The
Blues Brothers like guys in fedoras but
a Prius is sort of like mmm maybe this
would just be cooler if we said it in
the 50s and I talked to the author about
that and he was super into those movies
and so he said okay Wow so then then but
then the middle period was the period of
mashing that up with the with these sort
stories the New York Chinatown kind of
of it the the deep dark history of what
really went on in New York and that took
a long time and then I I had it ready in
2012 I was really ready to dig go and I
just couldn't get it to guy couldn't get
Bruce was head he was in and that was
kind of good but I couldn't get everyone
I wanted together at the same time and I
couldn't get him the amount of money I
needed or that I thought I wanted and I
couldn't get a studio to back it because
honestly you know number one like I'm
not like you know I'm not like a green
light anything he does kind of an actor
that's it's just you know I think that's
a that's a different sort of thing but
also I was out there saying it's sort of
like Rain Man meets LA Confidential and
people's eyes just kind of cross they're
like they're like bring us the next one
like they're like we don't get it we
don't get it wait if we don't get yet
it's like and also I got like I had like
this idea of getting I love Radiohead
and I like jazz and I wanted to like I
got Thom Yorke to write a song for the
film but I got Wynton Marsalis to do all
the jazz and stuff and people were also
they were like this is these things are
not gonna go well together you know and
then they went to get like a lot of
people have said to me which is not it's
not me taking a lot of people said to me
it's the best music in a film that
they've heard in many many years flea
flea played trumpet and um and base on
Thom Yorke's track in the film and and
fleet you know fleas like a really good
trumpet player and his dad was a jazz
musician and I didn't know that flea
came out of the movie like crying he was
like that's honestly my favorite music
that I've ever heard in a home and I
think and and and but you can't you
can't tell people that you you I thought
that would work I thought this mashup
would work because I knew Tom and I knew
he loves Charles Mingus and and I knew
wenton was capable of doing he's really
interested in
and weird edgier kind of modernist music
as well and I was like this is gonna
work and it and it did it's it's really
the music's amazing in the film it it's
like its own like the wreck the records
out now and people are flipping out
about that just the music and the movie
hasn't even come out yet with such a
crazy combination of factors and details
that you smashed all together yeah and
it's got to feel first of all it's got
to be a tremendous relief and also feel
amazing that it's you did it I do feel
that I feel like it would have haunted
me and I it was rattling around in my
head such a long time I felt very
discouraged about it at times that's
kind of like you know I've done a few
okay things like I've done some stuff
that was weird and that people didn't
understand and it's it's come together
pretty great you know what I mean and
and uh you sort of go god I never I
never expect anybody to give me money to
make something like that's that's just
risky like I would never put money into
making movies never like it's too risky
you know and I get it so I'm not like I
deserve this like right but it was more
like I sometimes I was just like am I
going to be able to figure this out or
not am I am I gonna get this done and
and I think getting it done and having
it not having quit on it and in some
ways feeling not actually knowing that
it's better that I made it now I know
more I was more if I'd tried to do it 20
years ago I couldn't I didn't have the
chops to do some of the thing I liked
working with Spike Lee and Alejandro and
you ready when people like that really
like um it up to my sense of how to do I
learned a lot about how to do a big
thing with out all the money in the
world now this is release nationwide
worldwide like when it's released on
this Friday right yeah this Friday
it's everywhere yes sir tomorrow brought
all over America yet yeah it's a it's a
wide release here
I hope yeah and I think honestly
like the day it comes out like you can
either see terminator like not a 9.11
or or ours there's like not and I I like
certify on the Joe Rogan experience like
there's not a grown up human being who
will not be stoked about this film like
I can say that people who are seeing it
are are very very very into it and very
bought in because it is one of those
like it's a it's a big meal but it's a
really like it's a really rich good meal
and it has amazing amazing performances
I don't think Alec Baldwin has ever been
better in a movie honestly and I think
Willem Dafoe is amazing
Michael Kate Williams is amazing and the
music is great and and it's a it's a
cool story and I think um I think it's
kind of one of those things that it's
worth going to the theater to see but I
guarantee you it's more worth your time
than another Terminator well it sounds
like it to me I'm really excited about
it and I will see it for the door thank
you and I was pleasure talking you man I
really appreciate it thank you very much
for coming in here absolutely thank you
bye everybody
are you still chained like Siri
[Music]